After installing AWS CLI, recall that you must configure the following four items on your local machine before you can interact with any of the AWS services:

1. **Access key** - It is a combination of _Access Key ID_ and a _Secret Access Key_. You can generate an Access key from the AWS IAM service, and specify the level of permissions (authorization) with the help of _IAM Roles_.

1. **Default AWS Region** - It specifies the AWS Region where you want to send your requests by default.

1. **Default output format** - It specifies how the results are formatted. It can either be a json, yaml, text, or a table.

1. **Profile** - A collection of settings is called a profile. The default profile name is `default`, however, you can create a new profile using the `aws configure --profile new_name` command.

## Let's create an IAM User and copy the access key

> Note that each user can have up to 2 access keys at the same time.

### Deciding Access Privileges within AWS

#### AWS access type

* **Programmatic Access**: In the AWS console, choose "**programmatic access**." This allows us to use code to interact with AWS, instead of relying on mouse clicking in the console web pages. Choosing this option will Enable the access key ID and secret access key for the AWS CLI.

* **AWS Management Console access**: it is used only when you want the new user to be able to sign-in to the AWS web console using a password. This one is not the case in our course

#### Permissions

* **Administrator Access**: The permissions to a user are granted in form of **Policies**, which are JSON documents. The AWS web console provides a pre-created list of policies to choose from. For the current IAM user that you are creating, choose "**administrator access**." This is just for the initial setup of your account. Afterward, you'll want to limit access to only what you need.
> 
> Once a user is created, copy the access key for configuring the CLI. Do not save the access key in your code or into any public repositories. Keep them private to you.

#### Development and Production user accounts

In practice, Development and DevOps members may have separate user accounts for the development environment as opposed to the production environment. This makes it easier for developers by giving them wider privileges in the dev environment that would normally only be reserved for DevOps members in the production environment.