#### CloudFormation

https://youtu.be/Uom73nRVUY4

* CloudFormation is a declarative language, not an imperative language.
* CloudFormation handles resource dependencies so that you don't have to specify which resource to start up before another. There are cases where you can specify that a resource depends on another resource, but ideally, you'll let CloudFormation take care of dependencies.
* VPC is the smallest unit of resource.

### Glossary

**Declarative languages**: These languages specify what you want, without requiring you to specify how to get it. An example of a popular declarative language is SQL.  
**Imperative languages**: These languages use statements to change the state of the program.  
_Additional resources:_

* Here is the [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_programming) describing the differences between the two.
* Here is a [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17826380/what-is-difference-between-functional-and-imperative-programming-languages) thread describing imperative languages.

https://youtu.be/n8BFzWxu0dY

* Here is the link to the [Cloudformation VPC documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-vpc.html) referred to in the video above.

* Before you proceed further, get yourself familiarized with the terminologies, such as **Template**, and **Stack** from the [official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/cfn-whatis-concepts.html).

### YAML and JSON

* YAML and JSON file formats are both supported in CloudFormation, but YAML is the industry preferred version that's used for AWS and other cloud providers (Azure, Google Cloud Platform).
* An important note about YAML files: the whitespace indentation matters! We recommend that you use **four white spaces for each indentation**.

### Glossary in CloudFormation scripts

* **Name**: A name you want to give to the resource (does this have to be unique across all resource types?)

* **Type**: Specifies the actual hardware resource that you're deploying.

* **Properties**: Specifies configuration options for your resource. Think of these as all the drop-down menus and checkbox options that you would see in the AWS console if you were to request the resource manually.

* **Stack**: A stack is a group of resources. These are the resources that you want to deploy, and that are specified in the YAML file.

### Best practices

* Create separate files to organize your code. You can either create separate files for similar resources or create files for each developer who uses those resources.

### How do I find the syntax for a particular resource?

* You don't need to memorize the code that you need for each resource. You can find sample code in the [AWS CloudFormation - Resource and property types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) documentation for each AWS Service, such as **EC2**. Then, you can select the particular resource within the selected service, such as **AWS::EC2::VPC** in the list.