## Demo - Create Subnets - Part I

https://youtu.be/POSjbgeUoU8

## Demo - Create Subnets - Part II

https://youtu.be/ycguCh6ReVo

> **Note**: Please be careful about the indentation while copying and pasting the code from _network.yml_ to your _ourinfra.yml_ file.

### Subnets Syntax

* To specify a subnet for your VPC you can use the following syntax:
    
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet Properties: AssignIpv6AddressOnCreation: Boolean AvailabilityZone: String CidrBlock: String Ipv6CidrBlock: String MapPublicIpOnLaunch: Boolean Tags: - Tag VpcId: String 

* **Reference** - [AWS::EC2::Subnet resource documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-subnet.html)

### Adding Subnets to the VPC

* Here is the actual setup of our 2 private subnets in different AZs:
    
     PrivateSubnet1: Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet Properties: VpcId: !Ref VPC AvailabilityZone: !Select [ 0, !GetAZs '' ] CidrBlock: !Ref PrivateSubnet1CIDR MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false Tags: - Key: Name Value: !Sub ${EnvironmentName} Private Subnet (AZ1) PrivateSubnet2: Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet Properties: VpcId: !Ref VPC AvailabilityZone: !Select [ 1, !GetAZs '' ] CidrBlock: !Ref PrivateSubnet2CIDR MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false Tags: - Key: Name Value: !Sub ${EnvironmentName} Private Subnet (AZ2) 

* Points to notice in the code above:
  * `!Ref VPC` is referencing to the VPC created earlier.
  * `!Ref PrivateSubnet1CIDR` is referencing to the **PrivateSubnet1CIDR** parameter. For this parameter, we have already defined the default value as `10.0.2.0/24`. Similarly, the **PrivateSubnet2CIDR** parameter is being used in the above code.
  * Notice that our private subnets **are not** sharing availability zones. We are keeping them separated as we displayed in our diagrams from the previous lesson. To do so, the `!GetAZs‘’` function fetches the list of AZs in your region which are indexed 0, 1, etc. Then, the `!select [0, !GetAZs‘’]` returns only the first AZ.
  * For PrivateSubnet1, the`!Select [ 0, !GetAZs '' ]` is returning the **first AZ** from the list of all AZs in your region. Similarly, for PrivateSubnet2, the `!Select [ 1, !GetAZs '' ]` will return the second AZ.
* Similar to the private subnets shown above, you will have to create two public subnets each in AZ0 and AZ1, except for the changed value in the field `MapPublicIpOnLaunch: true`. Marking this field as True will enable the **Auto-assign public IP address** field of the public subnet.
* **Tip** - Name your subnets using tags, to keep track when you create many subnets.