## Demo - Create NAT Gateway - Part I

https://youtu.be/RrExFA9b8GM

## Demo - Create NAT Gateway - Part II

https://youtu.be/KyYaGcT3200

## Demo - Verify NAT Gateway in the Web Console

https://youtu.be/10GkOFKHBXg

### Adding a NAT Gateway

* Before you actually create a NAT gateway, make sure to understand the functionality and purpose of a NAT Gateway from [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat.html).
> 
> Generally, we place a NAT gateway in a public subnet to enable the servers in a private subnet to connect to the Internet. And sometimes, we want to prevent the Internet from connecting to the servers in the private subnet.

* **Syntax** - You can use NAT Gateways in both your public and/or private subnets. The following code is the basic syntax for declaring a NAT Gateway:
    
    Type: AWS::EC2::NatGateway Properties: AllocationId: String SubnetId: String Tags: - Tag 

* **Example** - The following declarations are from the sample code shown in the above video:
    
    Resources: NatGateway1EIP: Type: AWS::EC2::EIP DependsOn: InternetGatewayAttachment Properties: Domain: vpc NatGateway2EIP: Type: AWS::EC2::EIP DependsOn: InternetGatewayAttachment Properties: Domain: vpc NatGateway1: Type: AWS::EC2::NatGateway Properties: AllocationId: !GetAtt NatGateway1EIP.AllocationId SubnetId: !Ref PublicSubnet1 NatGateway2: Type: AWS::EC2::NatGateway Properties: AllocationId: !GetAtt NatGateway2EIP.AllocationId SubnetId: !Ref PublicSubnet2 

The code above will create two Elastic IPs and two NAT gateways.

* The `EIP` in `AWS::EC2::EIP` stands for Elastic IP. This will give us a known/constant IP address to use instead of a disposable or ever-changing IP address. This is important when you have applications that depend on a particular IP address. `NatGateway1EIP` uses this type for that very reason:
    
    NatGateway1EIP: Type: AWS::EC2::EIP DependsOn: InternetGatewayAttachment Properties: Domain: vpc 

* **Tip** - Use the `DependsOn` attribute to protect your dependencies from being created without the proper requirements. In the scenario above the `EIP` allocation will only happen after the `InternetGatewayAttachment` has completed. Read more about the [DependsOn Attribute](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-attribute-dependson.html) here.
* **Reference**: [AWS::EC2::NatGateway resource documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-natgateway.html)