Before we proceed ahead, let's understand two terms:

* **Route table**: Routing is the action of applying (routing) rules to your network, in this case, to your VPC. A [route table](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Route_Tables.html) contains a set of rules. It blocks traffic from resources that do not follow the routing rule. It is represented as an **AWS::EC2::RouteTable** resource in CloudFormation terminology.

* **Rules:** Rules define (in a particular order of precedence) the network protocol, allowed IP addresses, and ports to allow the inbound and outbound traffic separately. A single rule is called an **AWS::EC2::Route** resource in CloudFormation terminology.

This section will create the following route tables (AWS::EC2::RouteTable) in our VPC and attach each of them to individual subnets, as mentioned below.

1. **PublicRouteTable** - This route table will have a default rule (AWS::EC2::Route) to allow all outbound traffic routed to the internet gateway. Next, we will attach this route table (AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation) to both our public subnets.

1. **PrivateRouteTable1** - This route table will have a default rule (AWS::EC2::Route) to route all outbound traffic to the NAT gateway (**NatGateway1**). We will associate this route table to the **PrivateSubnet1**.

1. **PrivateRouteTable2** - This route table is similar in nature to **PrivateRouteTable1**, except that it is routing the traffic to the **NatGateway2**, and will be attached to the **PrivateSubnet2**.

> The flow of creating resources here will be: Create route tables → Add routes → Associate route table to subnets.

## Demo - Route Tables (AWS::EC2::RouteTable) and Rules (AWS::EC2::Route)

https://youtu.be/EyyDDGgrcdo

### Route Tables

* First, create route tables in your VPC, and then add routes (rules) to each route table. Later, associate the route table with individual subnets. The following is the syntax used to define a route table:
    
    Type: AWS::EC2::RouteTable Properties: Tags: - Tag VpcId: String 

* **Example** - The only required property for setting up a `RouteTable` is the `VpcId`. Here is an example table from the video lesson:
    
    Resources: PublicRouteTable: Type: AWS::EC2::RouteTable Properties: VpcId: !Ref VPC Tags: - Key: Name Value: !Sub ${EnvironmentName} Public Routes 

* Create the **PrivateRouteTable1** and **PrivateRouteTable2** similar to the code shown above. There will not be any change except the name of the resource.

* **Reference**: [AWS::EC2::RouteTable](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-route-table.html)

### Routes

* The following is the syntax used to set up a route:
    
    Type: AWS::EC2::Route Properties: DestinationCidrBlock: String DestinationIpv6CidrBlock: String EgressOnlyInternetGatewayId: String GatewayId: String InstanceId: String NatGatewayId: String NetworkInterfaceId: String RouteTableId: String VpcPeeringConnectionId: String 

In the syntax above, the `DestinationCidrBlock` property is used for destination matching and a `wildcard address` (`0.0.0/0`) to reference all traffic.

* The default **public** route: In the following example, when we use the wildcard address `0.0.0.0/0`, we are saying for any address that is destined for any IP address in the world, send it to the referenced `GatewayId`
    
    DefaultPublicRoute: Type: AWS::EC2::Route DependsOn: InternetGatewayAttachment Properties: RouteTableId: !Ref PublicRouteTable DestinationCidrBlock: 0.0.0.0/0 GatewayId: !Ref InternetGateway 

* The default **private** route can be defined as:
    
     DefaultPrivateRoute1: Type: AWS::EC2::Route Properties: RouteTableId: !Ref PrivateRouteTable1 DestinationCidrBlock: 0.0.0.0/0 NatGatewayId: !Ref NatGateway1 

* The route above is attached to the `PrivateRouteTable1` and is routed via `NatGateway1`. Create the `DefaultPrivateRoute2` for `PrivateRouteTable2` similar to the code shown above.

* **Reference**: [AWS::EC2::Route](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-route.html)

## Demo - Associate Route Tables to Subnets

https://youtu.be/t9viU9vNJTc

### SubnetRouteTableAssociation

* In order to associate subnets with our route table, we will need to use a `SubnetRouteTableAssociation` resource using the following syntax:
    
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation Properties: RouteTableId: String SubnetId: String 

This only takes two properties, which are the id's used for our `RouteTable` and our `Subnet`. You can see references used in the example from our video lesson above.

* **Example** - Associate PublicSubnet1 with the PublicRouteTable
    
    PublicSubnet1RouteTableAssociation: Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation Properties: RouteTableId: !Ref PublicRouteTable SubnetId: !Ref PublicSubnet1 

* Similarly, associate the rest of the three subnets to each of its intended route tables.

* **Reference**: [AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-subnet-route-table-assoc.html).
> 
> **Important Note:** `Routes` should be defined starting with the most specific rule and transitioning to the least specific rule.

### Solution

You can refer to the `network.yml` file in the [Github repository](https://github.com/udacity/nd9991-c2-Infrastructure-as-Code-v1/tree/master/supporting_material). (If you haven't, feel free to download the entire repo and open the file in a code editor to see the proper indentation).

## Demo - Verify Route Table Creation in the Web Console

https://youtu.be/XRub_LCjKa8


### AWS Documentation

* [Route Tables Overview](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Route_Tables.html)
* [AWS::EC2::RouteTable resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-route-table.html)
* [AWS::EC2::Route resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-route.html)
* [AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-subnet-route-table-assoc.html)