### What is an Autoscaling group?

https://youtu.be/B4kf8zv5q1I

An Autoscaling group is a logical group of EC2 instances that share a similar configuration.

This AWS service monitors the EC2 instances and automatically adjusts the running count by adding/removing EC2 instances, ensuring that a desired number of servers (EC2 instances) are always up and running.

* **Scaling policy**  
A Scaling Policy is the criteria used to decide when to Add or Remove Servers from your Auto Scaling Group. Running the servers 24 hours a day costs money. So, It's best to have criteria/conditions, called Scaling policy, that will turn those servers off when they are not needed and then turn them back on demand.

For example, you could create a CloudWatch Alarm with a custom metric that counts the number of web visitors in the last 2 hours; if the number is less than 100, perhaps a single server is enough. This will be a trigger to Scale Down if there is more than one server running at the time.

A Scaling policy spins up/shuts down EC2 instances automatically based on certain conditions that we specify, such as:
  * If an instance goes down due to any reason, such as bad health
  * If an instance achieves a CPU utilization upper threshold, say 90%
  * If the CPU utilization comes down below a certain lower threshold, then one of the instances will be shut down automatically
* **Launch configuration**  
Note that all the EC2 instances running as a part of an autoscaling group share a common configuration, such as AMI, instance-type, security-group, key pair, etc. All these configurations are saved in a separate resource: Launch configuration. Think of a Launch Configuration as a template or a recipe. You are instructing the Auto Scaling service HOW to run your web application.

For example: An application requires 2GB RAM , 4 vCPUs, 10GB of Disk Space, Java runtime version 8 or NodeJS 10.0\. All this on top of a standard distribution of Linux or Windows.
> 
> **Note**: AWS provides another option, [Launch templates](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/LaunchTemplates.html), as an alternative to the [Launch configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/LaunchConfiguration.html). They both serve a similar purpose.

Writing YAML code for either of them is similar in syntax. We will learn to code Launch configuration in this lesson, though.

## AWS::AutoScaling::AutoScalingGroup

An autoscaling group in our example exercise will require the following:

* VPCZoneIdentifier
* LaunchConfigurationName
* Min and Max count of instances
* TargetGroupARNs

See the code below having a reference to a Launch configuration, `WebAppLaunchConfig`, that we will create next:
    
    WebAppGroup: Type: AWS::AutoScaling::AutoScalingGroup Properties: VPCZoneIdentifier: - Fn::ImportValue: !Sub "${EnvironmentName}-PRIV-NETS" LaunchConfigurationName: Ref: WebAppLaunchConfig MinSize: '3' MaxSize: '5' TargetGroupARNs: - Ref: WebAppTargetGroup HealthCheckGracePeriod: 60 HealthCheckType: ELB 

In the code above:

* The `VPCZoneIdentifier` is a list of subnet IDs for a virtual private cloud (VPC) where instances in the Auto Scaling group can be created. We are using the private subnets.

* The `LaunchConfigurationName` represents the name of the launch configuration to use to launch instances. We will create a launch configuration in the next demo.

* The `MinSize` & `MaxSize` lets us know the range of machines we will be running, which also alerts us to the min/max costs we can be expecting from these machines.

* **A target group is a group of registered instances, to whom the traffic will be routed.** The ARN (Amazon Resource Names) serves as a unique ID for any resource. The `TargetGroupARNs` property refers to the ARNs of the load balancer target group that we will create in the upcoming demos.

  
#### Resources

---

* [AWS::AutoScaling::AutoScalingGroup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-as-group.html)
* The [AWS Frequently Asked Questions](https://aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/faqs/) (FAQs) is a great resource to master the finer details of scaling servers