
# Introduction
https://youtu.be/LjitAfe-YEo


https://youtu.be/Rkx3rqk3UeQ

#### Persisting Data

* Most applications need their data to persist and not be lost, which requires a database.
* We don't want a database to be a single point of failure, so we'll use resources that are designed for reliability. For example, RDS for the database, and S3 for the filestore.
* Relational Database Service (RDS): AWS service for creating databases.

#### Choosing a database

* AWS Aurora and MySQL have no additional licensing costs. Microsoft SQL Server will have additional licensing costs.

#### A single RDS Server can host multiple databases

* Note that you can use a single RDS database that hosts multiple applications, each with different logins and users for those applications. In other words, you don't need to create a separate RDS service for each application.

https://youtu.be/fQDNjalfzDA

#### Connectivity

* Subnet groups are needed for deploying in multiple AZs.
* We want to place our RDS in more than one Availability Zone (data center). We can place the RDS in two AZs to eliminate single point of failure and to have high availability.
* We created 4 subnets (2 private and 2 public), so the RDS can potentially be duplicated in all four subnets.
* However, keep in mind that we usually prefer to put databases in a private subnet, for security. There may be use cases where you put a database in a public subnet but generally put it in the private subnets.

#### Database Accessibility

Usually, don't make a database public.

* We'll choose "No" for public accessibility" to keep a database private.
* We'd normally use a private IP address to access a database.

#### VPC Security Groups

* **Default** means every resource in the VPC can talk to any other resource that is within that same VPC. We'll keep this default, to allow resources in the VPC to reach the database.

#### Encryption

* We can use encryption for sensitive production workloads. We can disable encryption for our database here.

#### RDS Running cost notice

* Be sure to **delete any RDS databases** that you don't need once you are done practicing because it can be very expensive if you forget it and leave it running for a while!

**See the detailed steps on the next page.**

### QUIZ QUESTION