The cloud is perfect for hosting static websites that only include HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files that require no server-side processing. In this project, you will deploy a static website to AWS.

First, you will create an S3 bucket, configure the bucket for website hosting, and secure it using IAM policies.

Next, you will upload the website files to your bucket and speed up content delivery using AWS’s content distribution network service, CloudFront.

Lastly, you will access your website in a browser using the unique S3 endpoint.

You should take a screenshot the results of each of your steps and submit the screenshots in a zipped folder when you are done.

The zipped folder should contain a README.txt file which includes your website's URL and any other relevant info you'd like to send to the review team. You can see an example submission here

Your project should meet all of the specifications in the Project Rubric.

Project Submission Checklist
Before submitting your project, please review and confirm the following items.

 I am confident all rubric items have been met and my project will pass as submitted.

 My project builds correctly without errors and runs.

 All required functionality exists and my project behaves as expected per the project's specifications.

 I have included the required screenshots in my submission folder

 I have included a README.txt file in the submission folder that includes the CloudFront endpoint URL for my project

Once you have checked all these items, you are ready to submit!

Reminder - Delete/shutdown every AWS resource (e.g., S3 buckets, Cloudfront distribution, EC2 instances) immediately after you receive your project review and pass the project successfully.