# Storage in the Cloud

Storage and database services in the cloud provide a place for companies to collect, store, and analyze the data they've collected over the years at a massive scale.

## Storage & Database Services

* Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
* Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) Glacier
* DynamoDB
* Relational Database Service (RDS)
* Redshift
* ElastiCache
* Neptune
* Amazon DocumentDB

___

# S3 & S3 GlacierAmazon Simple Storage Service (or S3) is an object storage system in the cloud.

## Storage ClassesS3 offers several [storage classes](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes), which are different data access levels for your data at certain price points.

* S3 Standard
* S3 Glacier
* S3 Glacier Deep Archive
* S3 Intelligent-Tiering
* S3 Standard Infrequent Access
* S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access

## Tips

* S3 is found under the Storage section on the AWS Management Console.
* A single object can be up to 5 terabytes in size.
* You can enable Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Delete on an S3 bucket to prevent accidental deletions.
* **S3 Acceleration** can be used to enable fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your data source and your S3 bucket.

___

# DynamoDB

DynamoDB is a NoSQL document database service that is fully managed. Unlike traditional databases, NoSQL databases, are schema-less. Schema-less simply means that the database doesn't contain a fixed (or rigid) data structure.

## Tips

* DynamoDB is found under the Database section on the AWS Management Console.
* DynamoDB can handle more than 10 trillion requests per day.
* DynamoDB is serverless as there are no servers to provision, patch, or manage.
* DynamoDB supports key-value and document data models.
* DynamoDB synchronously replicates data across three AZs in an AWS Region.
* DynamoDB supports GET/PUT operations using a primary key.

___

# Relational Database Service (RDS)

RDS (or Relational Database Service) is a service that aids in the administration and management of databases. RDS assists with database administrative tasks that include upgrades, patching, installs, backups, monitoring, performance checks, security, etc.

## Database Engine Support

* Oracle
* PostgreSQL
* MySQL
* MariaDB
* SQL Server

## Features

* failover
* backups
* restore
* encryption
* security
* monitoring
* data replication
* scalability

___


# Redshift

Redshift is a cloud data warehousing service to help companies manage big data. Redshift allows you to run fast queries against your data using SQL, ETL, and BI tools. Redshift stores data in a column format to aid in fast querying.

## Tips

* Redshift can be found under the Database section on the AWS Management Console.
* Redshift delivers great performance by using machine learning.
* Redshift Spectrum is a feature that enables you to run queries against data in Amazon S3\.
* Redshift encrypts and keeps your data secure in transit and at rest.
* Redshift clusters can be isolated using Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

___

# Content Delivery In The Cloud

A Content Delivery Network (or CDN) speeds up delivery of your static and dynamic web content by caching content in an Edge Location close to your user base.

## BenefitsThe benefits of a CDN includes:

* low latency
* decreased server load
* better user experience

___

# Cloud Front

CloudFront is used as a global content delivery network (CDN). Cloud Front speeds up the delivery of your content through Amazon's worldwide network of mini-data centers called Edge Locations.

CloudFront works with other AWS services, as shown below, as an origin source for your application:

* Amazon S3
* Elastic Load Balancing
* Amazon EC2
* Lambda@Edge
* AWS Shield

## Tips

* CloudFront is found under the Networking & Content Delivery section on the AWS Management Console.
* Amazon countinously adds new Edge Locations.
* CloudFront ensures that end-user requests are served from the closest edge location.
* CloudFront works with non-AWS origin sources.
* You can use GeoIP blocking to serve content (or not serve content) to specific countries.
* Cache control headers determine how frequently CloudFront needs to check the origin for an updated version your file.
* The maximum size of a single file that can be delivered through Amazon CloudFront is 20 GB.

___

