# Logging In The Cloud

Logging provides visibility into your cloud resources and applications. For applications that run in the cloud, you will need access to logging and auditing services to help you proactively monitor your resources and applications.

Logging allows you to answer important questions like:

* How is this server performing?
* What is the current load on the server?
* What is the root cause of an application error that a user is seeing?
* What is the path that leads to this error?

https://youtu.be/EkGOy_ZMA0A


# Cloud TrailCloud Trail allows you to audit (or review) everything that occurs in your AWS account. Cloud Trail does this by recording all the AWS API calls occurring in your account and delivering a log file to you.

## Features

CloudTrail provides event history of your AWS account activity, including:

* who has logged in
* services that were accessed
* actions performed
* parameters for the actions
* responses returned

This includes actions taken through the AWS Management Console, AWS SDKs, command line tools, and other AWS services.

## Tips

* Cloud Trail is found under the Management & Governance section on the AWS Management Console.
* CloudTrail shows results for the last 90 days.
* You can create up to five trails in an AWS region.

# Cloud Watch

Cloud Watch is a service that monitors resources and applications that run on AWS by collecting data in the form of logs, metrics, and events.

## FeaturesThere are several useful features:

* Collect and track metrics
* Collect and monitor log files
* Set alarms and create triggers to run your AWS resources
* React to changes in your AWS resources

## Tips

* CloudWatch is found under the Management & Governance section on the AWS Management Console.
* Metrics are provided automatically for a number of AWS products and services.

https://youtu.be/duVHCfGHI2k

Demo
https://youtu.be/nvqyem5IW2c

# Infrastructure as Code

Infrastructure as Code allows you to describe and provision all the infrastructure resources in your cloud environment. You can stand up servers, databases, runtime parameters, resources, etc. based on scripts that you write. Infrastructure as Code is a time-saving feature because it allows you to provision (or stand up) resources in a reproducible way.

#### Resources

---

* [Infrastructure as Code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)

https://youtu.be/aD0xos0IcGo


# Cloud Formation

AWS Cloud Formation allows you to model your entire infrastructure in a text file template allowing you to provision AWS resources based on the scripts you write.

## Tips

* Cloud Formation is found under the Management & Governance section on the AWS Management Console.
* Cloud Formation templates are written using JSON or YAML.
* You can still individually manage AWS resources that are part of a CloudFormation stack.

https://youtu.be/aeRjJ_Ky0lI

# AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)

The AWS CLI (or Command Line Interface) allows you to access and control services running in your AWS account from the command line. To use the CLI, simply download, install, and configure it.

## Tips

* The AWS CLI allows you to work with AWS services in a programmatic manner

https://youtu.be/vce4JMA7toI

