# Exercise - EC2 Auto Scaling

---

In this hands-on exercise, you will use Auto Scaling to automatically launch Amazon EC2 instances in response to the conditions you specify. You will also see auto-scaling in action as it automatically provisions replacement instance(s).
> 
> Definition: An [Autoscaling group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/what-is-amazon-ec2-auto-scaling.html) contains a collection of EC2 instances that share similar characteristics and are treated as a logical group.

All EC2 instances that are provisioned as a part of auto-scaling have the same configuration because they are instantiated from a [Launch template](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/LaunchTemplates.html). Let's get started.

## Preparatory Steps

1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://aws.amazon.com/console/).
2. Navigate to the [EC2 dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/). In this exercise, we will use the following two services available in the EC2 dashboard:
  * Instances → Launch templates
  * Auto Scaling → Auto Scaling Groups

## Stage 1\. Create a Launch template
> 
> Definition: A Launch template specifies instance configuration information, such as, AMI ID, the instance type, a key pair, security groups, and the other parameters that you use to launch EC2 instances.

1. Go to the _Launch templates_ service, and create a new template by specifying the following parameters:
  * Template name, and description of your choice.
  * Template contents:
    * AMI ID: Amazon Linux 2 AMI (HVM), SSD volume type
    * Instance type: t2.micro
    * Key-pair for logging in to the EC2 instances: Your choice of key-pair
    * Network settings: Choose a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), and a subnet in which the network interface is located. Choose a security group accordingly, because **this step will ensure that a public IP address is assigned automatically to every instance.**
    * Storage (volumes), tags, and network interfaces: Default

## Stage 2\. Create an Autoscaling group

1. Go to the _Auto Scaling Groups_ service, and create a new Autoscaling group. Creating an Autoscaling group is a multi-step process, in which you specify the configuration settings, group size, scaling policies (step/simple/target scaling policy), notifications, and tags. For this exercise, you have to specify the following **minimal set** of configurations:
  * Choose a Launch template that you have created in the previous step.
  * Provide the VPC, and subnets in which you want to create your EC2 instances.
  * Specify the Group size with the desired, minimum, and maximum capacity, i.e., count of EC2 instances at any given moment. You can choose the default value, 1, for each capacity.
  * Use the default values in the remaining steps of this process.

## Stage 3\. Verify your Autoscaling group

1. On the _Auto Scaling Group_ dashboard, select the Autoscaling group that you have created in the step above.
2. Verify the details that were provided while creating the Autoscaling group.
  * Verify that the Autoscaling group has launched the _desired_ number of EC2 instance(s). The status of your instance(s) should be _Successful_, which means the instances are launched.
  * Verify that the instances have the desired lifecycle and health. Also, note the _Instance ID_ for the next step.

## Stage 4\. Test Autoscaling group

In this step, you will terminate only those instance(s) that were launched as a part of the Autoscaling group. And, then we will verify if the Autoscaling group automatically launches new instances to maintain the desired number of running instances.
> 
> **Note** - In addition to the instances that are launched as a part of the Autoscaling group, it is possible that you have additional instances already created in your EC2 dashboard.

1. Go to the _EC2 Instances_ dashboard, and select the instance(s) that you want to terminate.
2. Terminate the selected instance(s).
3. Go back to the Auto Scaling Group service and select the Autoscaling group that you have created in the step above.
4. While viewing the details of the Autoscaling group, review the history for the EC2 instance(s). You will see that the previous EC2 instance has been terminated, and a new one(s) are being instantiated.

## Stage 5\. Delete Autoscaling group resources

In order to avoid being billed unnecessarily, it is important to delete the resources provisioned during this exercise.

* Come back on the _Auto Scaling Group_ dashboard, and select the checkbox against the auto-scaling group you want to delete.
* At the top of the screen, click the _Delete_ option.