# Cloud Watch

---

In this hands-on exercise, you will create a Cloud Watch event to notify via an SNS topic when an EC2 instance is created.

1. Prerequisites:
  * AWS account
  * SNS Topic created in the previous lab
2. By the end of this lab, you will be able to:
  * Create Cloud Watch event to react to the creation of an Amazon EC2 instance
  * Send SNS notification via Cloud Watch when an event occurs

Follow the exercise instructions described below:

## Steps:

1. **Create CloudWatch Rule**
  * Navigate to the CloudWatch service.
  * On the left-hand menu, under `Events`, select `Rules`.
  * Click on the `Create rule` button.
  * For `Service Name`, select `EC2`.
  * For the `Event Type`, select `EC2 Instance State-change Notification`.
  * Select the `Specific state(s)` radio button. Select `running` from the drop-down box.
> 
> **Note:** This configures the rule to trigger whenever an Amazon EC2 instance changes to the running state, which happens when an instance is launched or started.

  * On the right-hand side of the screen, in the `Target` section, add a target by clicking on `Add target`.
  * In the drop-down, change `Lambda function` to `SNS topic`.
  * For the `Topic`, select the topic you created in the SNS hands-on exercise.
> 
> **Important:** If the Topic doesn't appear, the `Access policy – optional` section doesn't have the correct permissions to allow other services to access the Topic.

  * Scroll down and click the `Configure details`.
  * Enter a name in the `Name` field. Ensure the state is `Enabled`. Click `Create rule`.

1. **Test CloudWatch Rule**
  * Navigate to the EC2 console page, by clicking on `Services` in the upper left-hand menu. Type `EC2` in the text box and click on `EC2` found in the search results.
  * On the EC2 Dashboard page, click on `Instances` in the left-hand navigation.
  * Click `Launch Instance`.
  * Select the `Amazon Linux 2 AMI (HVM), SSD Volume Type` Amazon Machine Image (AMI). **_Important:_** You are free to choose a different AMI, but to avoid excessive charges, pick one that says, `Free Tier Eligible`.
  * For the `Instance Type`, select the free-tier instance type of `t2.micro`.
  * Click `Review and Launch`.
  * Click `Launch`.
  * Generate and download a new key pair and then launch the instance.
  * Click `Launch Instances`.
  * Click on `View Instances`.
  * Once the Instance state changes to `Running`, check your email client for an email alert from the SNS Topic.

1. **Cleanup & Disable EC2 Instance and Cloud Watch Rule**
  * To avoid recurring charges for leaving an instance running, let's disable the EC2 instance.
  * From the EC2 Dashboard, select the instance just created, click `Actions`, then `Instance State`, and then select `Terminate`.
  * To avoid recurring charges for leaving the Cloud Watch rule running, let's disable it.
  * From the CloudWatch Dashboard, select `Rules` from under the `Events` section.
  * Select the Rule you just created, by clicking the radio button next to the Rule.
  * Click on the `Actions` button, and select `Delete`.


  