# Create a CI Pipeline

CI stands for Continuous Integration. We use the word "integration" because we are merging code from multiple developers and sources and verifying that it all integrates correctly. We can verify this using various tests and checks.

Let's create a CI pipeline with three of the most common CI stages:

| Stage   | Description                                                                                               |
|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Compile | Convert programmer code from text format to zero's and one's, or whatever is needed by the final runtime. |
| Test    | Run unit or integration tests against the code to make sure it is up to specifications.                   |
| Analyze | Perform some deeper tests on the code such as static analysis or a package security audit.                |

## Exercise: Create a CI Pipeline

Combine knowledge from previous exercises to build a simple Continuous Integration pipeline. We have a project that needs to be compiled, tested, and audited for security vulnerabilities. Let's get started!

### Instructions:

1. We will use an existing application for convenience. If you'd like to use your own application, that's fine, but be aware there may be some differences. To use the suggested application, please fork and clone [this repository](https://github.com/coryhouse/react-slingshot).
2. Create the Circle CI config file.
3. Create three jobs with the following names: `build`, `test`, and `analyze`. Each job should have some common elements. For example, before doing anything that works with code, you will need to `checkout`. You may also have to install any dependencies needed to run the code or complete some task. Here are the commands we suggest running:
4. For the build job, `npm run lint`
5. For the test job, `npm run test`
6. For the analyze job, `npm audit`
7. Define a workflow that invokes each job in sequential order, where `test` depends on `build` and `analyze` depends on `test`.
8. Commit your new changes and watch the pipeline run.
9. You should see that the `analyze` job fails since some packages have security vulnerabilities.

Solution

```yaml
version: 2.1

jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:13.8.0
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: npm i
      - run: npm run lint
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:13.8.0
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: npm i
      - run: npm run test
  analyze:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:13.8.0
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: npm audit

workflows:
  my_workflow:
    jobs:
      - build
      - test:
          requires:
            - build
      - analyze:
          requires:
            - test
```

https://youtu.be/POTlE_ZbFII

### In This Lesson, We...

* Learned about CI and How It Fits in the Bigger Picture
* Discussed Some Behaviors of CI Veterans
* Went Over Some of the Common Building Blocks of Most CI Tools, Like:
  * Environment Variables
  * Triggers
  * Pipelines
  * Jobs
  * File Sharing Between Jobs
  * Re-Usable Job Code
  * Job Failures
* Designed a Complete CI Pipeline