## Section 1

### Explain the Fundamentals and Benefits of CI/CD to Achieve, Build, and Deploy Automation for Cloud-Based Software Products

You are leading a team to develop the UdaPeople product, a revolutionary concept in Human Resources which promises to help small businesses care better for their most valuable resource: their people. Before implementing CI/CD for the UdaPeople product, you need authorization from the people who write the checks. Create a proposal in document or presentation form that "sells" the concept of CI/CD to non-technical decision-makers in the UdaPeople organization.

While writing this proposal document/presentation, step out of your technical role and step into the world of revenue and costs. You will need to translate the benefits of CI/CD from technical language to the business's values. To appeal to what makes business people tick, you'll need to focus on benefits that create revenue, protect revenue, control costs, or reduce costs.

The deliverable should be "near-production-quality", but you should try to time-box your work to about 30 minutes. In other words, it should be good enough to submit to a manager in a real job. It should not be a messy or last-minute submission. You may use public domain or open source templates and graphics if you'd like. But please make sure the content is your own. Your presentation should be no longer than 5 slides. Your manager prefers to view presentations that are short and sweet!

Your presentation should be in PDF format named "presentation.pdf" and should be included in your code repository root folder.

