Let's download and get familar with the start code.

## Prerequisites

Ensure to have these tools installed on your local machine:

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) - Once installed, you can verify using:
    
    git --version 

* SSH client like OpenSSH. Linux/Mac users can use the default terminal.
* **Optional** tools - if you plan on compiling locally:
  * [NodeJs v13.8](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases/) and NPM v6.XX
  * If you already have another NodeJS installed, refer to this thread on [Changing the NodeJS version](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7718313/how-to-change-to-an-older-version-of-node-js) using Node version manager (nvm).

## Starter Code

https://youtu.be/ODLIAe28OJk

1. **Fork** and then clone the [starter code](https://github.com/udacity/cdond-c3-projectstarter) to your machine so that you can manipulate the files.

1. As you develop the project, ensure that you push your code into a repository in **your** account in Github. You might consider making your repository public so that Circle CI will give you more credits to run builds ([more information here](https://circleci.com/open-source/)).

1. Here is the directory structure relevant for the project:

```
.
├── .circleci # You will develop the files in this directory. 
│   ├── ansible
│   └── files
├── backend  # Do not run npm commands here (on your local machine). 
│   ├── src
│   └── test
├── frontend # Do not run npm commands here (on your local machine). 
│   ├── src
│   └── types
└── util     # Files relevant for the running the app locally (Optional).
```

### Contents of the `.circleci` directory

1. **CloudFormation templates** - For your convenience, we have provided necessary CloudFormation templates that you can use throughout the deployment phase of your project. You can find those templates in the [/.circleci/files](https://github.com/udacity/cdond-c3-projectstarter/tree/master/.circleci/files) folder. It has these files:
  * _cloudfront.yml_ - We will instruct you to use this file to manually create a stack.
  * _backend.yml_ and _frontend.yml_ - Your CircleCI job will run these files. We will hold you along the step-by-step instructions ahead.
  * Note that no changes are required in three files mentioned above, except updating the EC2 key pair name and suitable AMI name in the _backend.yml_ file later.
2. **Ansible Playbooks and Roles** - The `/.circleci/ansible` directory contains the playbook files and roles that you will develop, per instructions on the next page.

1. **CircleCI `config.yml` file** - We left a scaffolded/incomplete `/.circleci/config.yml` file to help you get started with CirlcCI's configuration. This file has intentionally failing/incomplete jobs. To call attention to unfinished jobs, we left some "non-zero error codes" (e.g. `exit 1`) for you to remove when you have finished implementing the jobs.
> 
> The starter `config.yml` file will not work out-of-the-box. It is provided to help you understand the final structure of the CircleCI configuration.

### The backend and the frontend
> 
> **Tip**: It is a good practice to read through the frontend and backend README.

Do not run NPM commands either in the backend or the frontend folders on your local machine. Instead, you will run the suitable NPM commands as part of the CircleCI jobs.

Also, note that we have provided an easy-to-fix compile error in the backend. In addition, there is one failing test in both the frontend and backend. Details are present in the next section. This means, **the starter code will not work out of the box on your local machine** either.

### Screenshots and URLs

Throughout this project, you will be asked to take screenshots or provide URLs to aid in the evaluation process once you're done with the project (see details in the Rubric below).

It's worth mentioning here since it's much harder to harvest some screen shots once you've passed certain milestones. **It's best if you take screenshots along the way and store them in a folder on your computer until you're ready to turn the project in.** Also, it's good to keep a document or notepad with the list of urls that are requested.

### Rubric
> 
> Before you start coding your solution, it will be a good idea to have a quick look at the [Rubric criteria](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/2834/view) against which your submisssion will be evaluated.