## Creating a Virtual Environment

A [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#:~:text=A%20virtual%20environment%20is%20a,part%20of%20your%20operating%20system.) is a Python environment **isolates** the Python interpreter to a specific directory. In simple words, it has its own set of python packages installed.

Imagine that two or more applications are running on a machine, and each application has its specific set of dependencies. For example, the first application may need `Numpy 1.18.x` whereas the other application needs `Numpy 1.21.x`. In such scenarios, where the applications' dependencies are specific and conflicting, the Python virtual environments can resolve the problem by creating an isolated environment for each application.

### Creating Virtual Environments

There are a several ways to create a virtual environment. Here, we will make use of the `venv` package that comes as a default with Python 3.x. The Python standard library includes a module called [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) that helps to create a virtual environment.

The command below will create `hello` virtual environment in a user's home directory.
    
    python3 -m venv ~/.hello 

To use this virtual environment it needs to be activated.
    
    source ~/.hello/bin/activate 

Alternatively, you can use the [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) package manager to create and source virtual environments.

### \[Optional\] Convention to Create Virtual Environments

Conventions are a powerful way to simplify complex software engineering tasks in a series of easy to remember steps. A convention based workflow with virtual environments can also dramatically simplify using them. Here is a simple convention to use:

1. Create a virtual environment with a `~/.[reponame]` format. This removes the decision about where to put the virtual environment and what to name it. If your git repository is called `hello`, then you would run the following command:
    
    python3 -m venv ~/.hello 

Note, that the `.` makes the virtual environment hidden. This will prevent your home directory overflowing with virtual environments when you open it in a GUI or list the contents with `ls -l`.

1. Create an alias in your Bash or ZSH environment. With ZSH, the config file to edit would be `~/.zshrc`. In Bash it would be `~/.bashrc`. Inside of this config file add the following:
    
    ## Hello repo alias hello="cd ~/hello && source ~/.hello/bin/activate" 

The next time you open your default shell, this alias will be available. Here is an example of what this workflow looks like on my ZSH environment, which uses a package called [oh-my-zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/).
    
    ➜ hello (.hello) ➜ hello git:(master) (.hello) ➜ hello git:(master) which python /Users/noahgift/.hello/bin/python 

This convention based workflow, if followed, makes a tedious and error prone process easy to remember.

The next couple quizzes are meant to check your understanding of the steps it takes to create a virtual environment. If you find yourself unsure of an answer, it may help to read the [python documentation](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/) for virtual environments.