## Makefiles

https://youtu.be/Zy3noyI7Q-I

You can follow along with Noah's code [here](https://github.com/udacity/DevOps_Microservices/tree/master/Lesson-2-Docker-format-containers/myrepo).

### Setup Makefile

Just like `vim`, mastering `Makefiles` can take years, but a minimalistic approach provides immediate benefits. A main benefit to a `Makefile` is the ability to enforce a convention. If everytime you work a project you follow a few simple steps, it reduces the possibility of errors in building and testing a project.

A typical Python project can be improved by adding a `Makefile` with the following steps: `make setup`, `make install`, `make test`, `make lint` and `make all`.
    
```
setup:
    python3 -m venv ~/.myrepo

install:
    pip install --upgrade pip &&\
        pip install -r requirements.txt

test:
    python -m pytest -vv --cov=myrepolib tests/*.py
    python -m pytest --nbval notebook.ipynb


lint:
    pylint --disable=R,C myrepolib cli web

all: install lint test
``` 

This example is from a tutorial repository called [`myrepo`](https://github.com/noahgift/myrepo). There is also an article about how to use it from [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/blog/increase-reliability-in-data-science-and-machine-learning-projects-with-circleci/).

The general idea is that a convention eliminates the need to think about what to do. For every project, there is a common way to install software, a common way to test software and a common way to test and lint software. Just like `vim`, a `Makefile` build system is often already on a Unix or Linux system. Even Microsoft uses the [Linux operating system in Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/linux-on-azure/), and the result is that Linux is the preferred deployment target for most software.

#### Noah's Makefile

Here is what is contained in Noah's Makefile:

```
setup:
    python3 -m venv ~/.myrepo

install:
    pip install -r requirements.txt

test:
    python -m pytest -vv --cov=myrepolib tests/*.py
    python -m pytest --nbval notebook.ipynb

lint:
    pylint --disable=R,C myrepolib cli web

all: install lint test
```

Note that each line is indented with a tab.

#### Noah's `requirements.txt`

Below are the libraries included in Noah's `requirements.txt` file:
    
    pytest pylint jupyter pytest-cov pandas nbval click flask requests 

### `Makefile` Creation Recap

Let's recap the key concepts of _creating_ a `Makefile`.

* `setup`: You have seen most of this line before, which is dealing with our Python 3 virtual environment.
* `install`: This installs the requirements for our environment. In our case, it also install the `pytest` and `pylint` libraries used later on in the Makefile.
* `test`: This is broken into two parts for testing.
  * First, it will use `.py` files in the `tests` directory. The `-vv` flag ensures short test durations are still shown (see [documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html#profiling-test-execution-duration)), while the `-cov` flag helps to calculate what the test coverage of the code is (see [documentation](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-cov/)) in a given directory.
  * The second line is used to test Jupyter Notebook cells. The `--nbval` flag makes pytest pay attention to jupyter notebooks (see [documentation](https://nbval.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)).
* `lint`: This will lint what is in the `myrepolib` directory, as well as the `cli.py` and `web.py` files in our current directory (see video). The `--disable=R,C` is used to disable the "convention" (C) and "refactor" (R) message classes (see related [Stack Overflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31907762/pylint-to-show-only-warnings-and-errors)).
* `all`: You may notice this line looks a little different than the above lines, with the commands on the same line. This will execute our `install`, `lint` and `test` commands.

### `Makefile` Usage Recap

Let's recap the key concepts of a _using_ a `Makefile`.

Once the Makefile is created, you can use:

* `make install`
* `make lint`

to install dependencies and test your code.

___

## Exercise: Create A Basic Makefile

Makefiles can be incredibly useful ways to build up a chain of commands that build, test and deploy software.

Now that you've seen an example of a Makefile, you are ready to create one of your own. Makefiles have plenty of different commands and variables that can be used - check out [this page](https://makefiletutorial.com/) for a long list of them.

While you will start from scratch in this exercise, if you need to look at another example of a Makefile, you can check out [this Makefile](https://github.com/udacity/DevOps_Microservices/tree/master/Lesson-3-Containerization/Makefile) in the course repository. This additional example Makefile will be used in the next lesson on containerization.

### Instructions

* Create an empty `Makefile` using the `touch` command
* Create two commands: `cmd1` and `cmd2` and make this `echo` the name of the command.
  * Note that Makefiles will normally print out each line as it goes, but here we want it to just explicitly `echo` the command names. Check out the link above to figure out how you can stop a line from printing.
  * Makefiles have an automatic variable that contains the target name for the commands you create. You can also find this in the link above to add to your Makefile.
* Create an `all` command that runs both `cmd1` and `cmd2`
* Run `make all` to see the output

### One Potential Solution

Here is an example of a Makefile you could create for this exercise:

```
cmd1:
        @echo "$@"

cmd2:
        @echo "$@"

all: cmd1 cmd2
```

## Note that after `cmd1` and `cmd2`, and before `@echo`, should be a tab. The `@` at the start of these lines prevents `make` from automatically printing the lines, while `"$@"` is the variable for a string containing the target name, in this case either `cmd1` or `cmd2`. To double-check that `make` is actually showing the command name from within the command itself, try to `echo` something else from within one of them, such as `Hello World!`, and check the results.
