## Lesson Summary

### Key Terms:

#### Container

A container is a set of processes that are isolated from the rest of the operating system. They are often megabytes in size.

#### Virtual Machine

A virtual machine is the emulation of a physical operating system. They can be Gigabytes in size.

#### Docker Format Container

There are several formats for containers. An emerging form is Docker, which involves the definition of a `Dockerfile.`

#### pip

The `pip` tool installs Python packages.

#### pylint

The `pylint` tool checks the Python source code for syntax errors.

#### black

The `black` tool formats the text of Python source code automatically.

#### pytest

The `pytest` tool is a framework for running tests on Python source code.

#### IPython

The `ipython` interpreter is an interactive terminal for Python. It is the core of the Jupyter notebook.

#### Makefile

A `Makefile` is a file that contains a set of directives used to build software. Most Unix and Linux operating systems have built-in support for this file format.

#### CircleCI

A popular SaaS (Software as a Service) build systems used in DevOps workflows.

#### Docker

Docker is a company that creates container technology, including an execution engine, collaboration platform via DockerHub and a container format called `Dockerfile.`

#### Amazon ECR

Amazon ECR is a container registry that stores Docker format containers.

_Source: [https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms](https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms)_