## eksctl

The AWS EKS service is available through AWS CLI. Creating an AWS EKS cluster is a multi-step process, however, involving many resources. **AWS and Weaveworks collaborated to create the `eksctl` CLI utility to simplify cluster creation.**

The `eksctl` is a simple CLI utility for creating clusters on Amazon EKS. This utility that **uses the services of AWS CloudFormation internally**.
> 
> AWS CloudFormation is an AWS service for creating, managing, and configuring ANY resource on the AWS cloud using a YAML/JSON script. In the script file, you can define the properties of the resource you want to create in the cloud.

> If you are creating a simple cluster, the `eksctl` utility eliminates the need to write a CloudFormation script. In the case of an advanced cluster with desired configuration, you may have to write a **minimal** YAML script.

EKSCTL greatly simplifies EKS cluster creation, by auto-generating the necessary AWS resources in your default region, such as:

* VPC - a virtual network defined by a range of IP addresses allocated to you.
* Subnets - a subnet is a subset of the VPC (IP addresses) in your desired availability zone (data center)
* Nodegroups - logical group of worker nodes. Note that each node is a Virtual Machine (VM)
* Deciding the AMI and Type of the worker nodes. AMI defines the underlying OS, the default is Linux with supporting packages. Type defines the hardware capacity.
* Kubernetes API endpoint

Let's learn how to install the `eksctl` CLI utility.

## eksctl Installation

* Latest Linux:
    
    curl --silent --location "https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases/download/latest_release/eksctl_$(uname -s)_amd64.tar.gz" | tar xz -C /tmp sudo mv /tmp/eksctl /usr/local/bin 

* Mac using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):
    
    # Check Homebrew brew --version # If you do not have Homebrew installed - https://brew.sh/ /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)" # Install eksctl brew tap weaveworks/tap brew install weaveworks/tap/eksctl 

If you face any error due to ownership permission, you can change the ownership of those directories to your user.
    
    sudo chown -R $(whoami) /usr/local/<directory_name> 

* Windows using Powershell terminal:
    
    # Install Chocolatey. Refer to the https://chocolatey.org/install for detailed steps Set-ExecutionPolicy AllSigned Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://chocolatey.org/install.ps1')) # Exit and re-run Powershell as an Admin chocolatey install eksctl # Verify choco -? 

For more installation information see the installation instructions [here](https://eksctl.io/introduction/#installation).

### QUIZ QUESTION

eksctl is a command line tool designed to simplify

* Managing Pods and Services
* Creating EKS clusters
* Interacting with all of AWS

### How it works?

1. **Create a basic cluster**  
Once you have installed EKSCTL utility, you can create a basic cluster with just one command:
    
    eksctl create cluster 

A cluster will be created with default parameters, such as:
  * An auto-generated name
  * Two `m5.large` worker nodes. Recall that the worker nodes are the virtual machines, and the `m5.large` [type](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/) defines that each VM will have 2 vCPUs, 8 GiB memory, and up to 10 Gbps network bandwidth.
  * Use the [Linux AMIs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eks-optimized-ami.html) as the underlying machine image
  * Your default region
  * A dedicated VPC

However, you can specify all the above details explicitly, for example:
    
    eksctl create cluster --name myCluster --nodes=4 

2. **Create an advanced cluster**  
  
If you want to specify a detailed configuration, then you may have to write all the configuration in a separate YAML file, and pass it along with the command:
    
    eksctl create cluster --config-file=<path> 

_We will not discuss the option above to use configuration files_, however, you can have a look at an example [here](https://eksctl.io/).

1. **List the details**  
List the details about the existing cluster(s)
    
    eksctl get cluster [--name=<name>][--region=<region>] 

1. **Delete a cluster**  
Run a simple command, it will delete the cluster as well as all the associated resources.
    
    eksctl delete cluster --name=<name> [--region=<region>] 

There are many more options while creating a cluster, such as defining the auto-scaling size (min-max number of nodes), and SSH access to the nodes.

___

## `kubectl`

The `kubectl` is a command-line tool for interacting with Kubernetes cluster. You can use this command-line utility to deploy the application and communicate with the Kubernetes cluster, such as checking the status of the pods. Mostly the Docker Desktop installation will also install the `kubectl` utility.

Before you head for the installation, check if you already have a kubectl installed using:
    
    # Make sure Docker Desktop is running kubectl version --client 

If do not have it installed, the installation instructions for kubectl can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).
> 
> Windows users run the installation commands only in the PowerShell terminal (as an Admin)

## More Information:

Additional information about kubectl syntax and available commands can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/).

