## Kubernetes Summary

### Why Kubernetes?

There are many compelling reasons to use Kubernetes. Let's summarize them:

* Created, Used and Open Sourced by Google
* High Availability Architecture
* Auto-Scaling is Built In
* Rich Ecosystem
* Service Discovery
* Container Health Management
* Secrets and Configuration Management

Another advantage is that Kubernetes is cloud agnostic and it could be a solution for companies that are willing to take on the additional complexity to protect against "vendor lockin".

### Key Terms:

#### Kubernetes

Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating the operations of containerized applications. Google created it and opened-sourced it in 2014\.

#### Amazon EKS

Amazon EKS is a managed Kubernetes service created by Amazon.

#### Google GKE

Google GKE is a managed Kubernetes service created by Google.

#### Azure Kubernetes Service AKS

Azure Kubernetes Service is a managed Kubernetes service created by Google.

#### YAML

YAML is a human-readable serialization format often used in configuration systems. It is easily portable to JSON format.

#### Kubernetes Pods

A Kubernetes pod is a group of one or more containers.

#### Kubernetes Containers

A Kubernetes container is a Docker image that deploys into a Kubernetes cluster.

#### Kubernetes Clusters

A Kubernetes cluster is a deployment of Kubernetes that contains the entire ecosystem of Kubernetes components, including nodes, pods, the API, and containers.

#### Prometheus

Prometheus is an open-source monitoring system with an efficient time-series database.

#### Logging

Logging is a process of creating messages about the running state of a software application.

#### Autoscaling

Autoscaling is the process of scaling load up or down automatically based on how many resources the nodes are using.

_Source: [https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms](https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms)_