## Disaster Recovery

An important but often overlooked part of building production software is designing for failure. There is an expression that the only two certainties in life are death and taxes. We can add another certainty to the list, software system failure. In the AWS whitepaper [Serverless Application Lens](https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS-Serverless-Applications-Lens.pdf) they discuss five pillars of a well architected serverless system: operational excellence, reliability, performance efficiency and cost optimization. _It is highly recommended to read this guide thoroughly._

New link: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/serverless-applications-lens/wellarchitected-serverless-applications-lens.pdf#welcome

### Five Pillars of a Well Architected Serverless System

#### Operational Excellence

How do you understand the health of a serverless application? One method is to use metrics and alerts. These metrics could include business metrics, customer experience metrics and other metrics. Another method is to have centralized logging. This allows for unique transactions ideas that can narrow down critical failures.

#### Security

Have proper controls and using the POLP (Principle of Least Privilege). Only give out the privileges needed to complete a task to a user, service or developer. Protect data at rest and in transit.

#### Reliability

Plan on the fact that failure will occur. Have retry logic for key service and build a system that can queue work when a service is unavailable. Use highly available services that store multiple copies of the data like Amazon S3 and then archive key data to services that can store immutable backups. Ensure that you have tested these backups and validated them on a recurring basis (say quarterly)

#### Performance

One key way to validate performance is to load test an application that has proper instrumentation and logging. Several load test tools include: [Apache Bench](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/programs/ab.html), [Locust](https://locust.io/) and load test services like [loader.io](https://loader.io/)

#### Cost

Serverless technologies like AWS Lambda fit well with cost optimization because they are driven by usage. Events trigger the execution of services and this saves a tremendous amount on cost if the architecture is designed to take advantage of this.

### Summary of Serverless Best Practices

One of the advantages of serverless application development is that it encourages the use of IaC and GitOps on top of highly durable infrastructure. This means that entire environments can be spun up to mitigate severe unplanned outages in geographic regions. Additionally, the use of automated load testing alongside comprehensive instrumentation and logging leads to environments that are robust in the face of disasters.

### Reference

* Backup and Migrate Kubernetes: [LINK](https://github.com/heptio/velero)