## Lesson Summary

https://youtu.be/bN1o0VvvGbQ

### Key Terms:

#### Alerts

Alerts are health metrics that have actions associated with them. An example would be an alert that sends a text message to a software engineer when a web service returns multiple error status codes.

#### Operationalization

The process of making an application ready for production deployment. These actions could include monitoring, load-testing, setting up alerts, and load-testing.

#### Metrics

Metrics are the creation of KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) for a software application. An example of a parameter is the percentage of CPU used by a server.

#### Disaster recovery

Disaster recovery is the process of designing a software system to recover despite a disaster. This process could include archiving data to another location.

#### Migrate

Migrate is the ability to move an application from one environment to another.

#### Continuous Integration

Continuous Integration is the process of automatically testing software upon check in to the source control system.

#### Continuous Delivery

Continuous Delivery is the process of delivering tested software automatically to any environment.

#### Load Testing

Load testing is the process of verifying the scale characteristics of a software system.

#### Locust

Locust is a load-testing framework that accepts Python formatted load test scenarios.

_Source: [https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms](https://noahgift.github.io/cloud-data-analysis-at-scale/topics/key-terms)_

___

## Course Summary

https://youtu.be/gsb7XtmJ04U

