## Other Considerations

1. You can deploy your servers with an **SSH Key** into Public subnets while you are creating the script. This helps with troubleshooting. Once done, move them to your private subnets and remove the **SSH Key** from your **Launch Configuration**.

1. It also helps to test directly, without the load balancer. Once you are confident that your server is behaving correctly, increase the instance count and add the load balancer to your script.

1. While your instances are in public subnets, you'll also need the `SSH port open (port 22)` for your access, in case you need to troubleshoot your instances.

1. Log information for UserData scripts is located in this file: `cloud-init-output.log` under the folder: `/var/log`.

1. You should be able to destroy the entire infrastructure and build it back up without any manual steps required, other than running the **CloudFormation** script.

1. The provided UserData script should help you install all the required dependencies. Bear in mind that this process takes several minutes to complete. Also, the application takes a few seconds to load. This information is crucial for the settings of your load balancer health check.

1. It's up to you to decide which values should be parameters and which you will hard-code in your script.

1. See the provided supporting code for help and more clues.

1. If you want to go the extra mile, set up a bastion host (jump box) to allow you to SSH into your private subnet servers. This bastion host would be on a Public Subnet with `port 22` open only to your home `IP address`, and it would need to have the private key that you use to access the other servers.

Last thing: Remember to **delete your CloudFormation stack** when you're done to avoid recurring charges!

